
### 1. Configure Virtual Environment and Install Django & Prerequisites

1. Create Virtual Environment.
   
         python -m venv [env name].

2. Update PIP

        python -m pip install --upgrade pip

3. Activate venv.
    
        [env_name]\scripts\activate
        
4. Install Django.
        
        python -m pip install django

5. Start project to create framework/files.

        django-admin startproject [projectname] .

6. PIP install prerequisites

> For example, this project requires Pillow which is a Django library that allows for images to be included in the DB.

        python -m pip install Pillow

### 2. Build Database

        python manage.py migrate

### 3. Run the Web Server

        python manage.py runserver

### 4. Start the Web App

1. Open a new terminal (CTRL + SHIFT + `).
2. Navigate to venv/directory with Manage.py.
3. Activate venv.
4. Navigate to project directory.
5. Start the app to create the framework/files for the project.

        python manage.py startapp [app_name]

### 5. Register Apps with Settings.py

**Project/Settings.py** 

> Best practice is to place your apps before the default apps in the case you need to override default Django functionality.

        INSTALLED_APPS = [

                # My Apps 
                'DevelopingWriter',
                'RideMTBNC',
                'SensibleSuppers',
                'Protogenos3D',

                'django.contrib.admin',
                'django.contrib.auth',
                'django.contrib.contenttypes',
                'django.contrib.sessions',
                'django.contrib.messages',
                'django.contrib.staticfiles',
 
                
        ]


### 6. Creating Models

1. Define the model in models.py.
2. Activate the model by adding the model to settings.py.
3. Stage the model with makemigrations.

        python manage.py makemigrations

4. Push the model to db with migrate.

        python manage.py migrate

5. Register the model with admin site.

### 7. Establish Django Admin Site

1. Create Superuser.

        python manage.py createsuperuser

**admin.py**

        from django.contrib import admin

        # Register your models here.

        from .models import Topic

        admin.site.register(Topic)

## Create View

## Create Template

## Create URL Pattern

## Images and Styles as Static Files

1. Create a Static Folder at the top level of the project or app.

**Folder/File to Add Location**

                app > static > css . css file
             
**HTML in Templates in <head>**

                <link rel="stylesheet" href="{% static 'css/styles.css' %}">

## Build Templates

**Templates** are the overall structure of the page. 

1. Create a folder called **templates** inside project folder. [**INITIAL**]
2. Create a nested folder called ***project_name***.
3. Add ***page_name*.html** that was used in views/urls files to templates/*project_name* directory.

**Base Templates**

Base templates contain repeated elements common to all pages called **base.html** and are placed in the templates/[app_name] directory.

**Template Tags**

Template tags are indicated using curly braces and percentage signs to generate information to be displayed on a page.

        {% url 'learning_logs:index' %}  

This code generates a URL matching the URL pattern defined in urls.py with name index.

**Block Tags**

Reserves space for a child template to define content.

You can include as many blocks as needed. A child template does not need to utilize or fill every block to work.

        {% block content %}{% endblock content %}

**Child Templates**

Child templates **must start** with *extends 'app_name/base.html'* to indicate the parent template to inherit from.

        {% extends 'learning_logs/base.html %}

        {% block content %}

        <p> Learning Log helps you keep track of your learning, for any topic you're interested in. </p>

        {% end block content %}

**Creating Child Templates**

The URL pattern now contains the word topics in Views.py:

         # Topic Template
        path('topics/', views.topics, name='topics'),

The topics() function in view.py is updated to retrieve information from the database:

1. Import the model associated with the data we need.
2. The topics() function needs the parameter request object Django receives from the server.
3. Query the database by asking for the Topic objects sorted by the date_added attribute.
4. Define a context that is sent to the template. A **Context** is a dictionary in which keys are names used in the template to access data and values are data needed to be sent to the template. 

When building a page that uses data retrieved from the database, you call the render() function with the request object, the template to use, and the context dictionary.

        1    def topics(request):
                """Show all topics"""
        2        topics = Topic.objects.order_by('date_added')
        3        context = {'topics': topics}
        4        return render(request, 'learning_logs/topics.html', context)

