**Templates** are the overall structure of the page. 

1. Create a folder called **templates** inside project folder. [**INITIAL**]
2. Create a nested folder called ***project_name***.
3. Add ***page_name*.html** that was used in views/urls files to templates/*project_name* directory.

### Base Templates

Base templates contain repeated elements common to all pages called **base.html** and are placed in the templates/[app_name] directory.

### Template Tags

Template tags are indicated using curly braces and percentage signs to generate information to be displayed on a page.

        {% url 'learning_logs:index' %}  

This code generates a URL matching the URL pattern defined in urls.py with name index.

### Block Tags

Reserves space for a child template to define content.

You can include as many blocks as needed. A child template does not need to utilize or fill every block to work.

        {% block content %}{% endblock content %}

### Child Templates

Child templates **must start** with *extends 'app_name/base.html'* to indicate the parent template to inherit from.

        {% extends 'learning_logs/base.html %}

        {% block content %}

        <p> Learning Log helps you keep track of your learning, for any topic you're interested in. </p>

        {% end block content %}

### Creating Child Templates

The URL pattern now contains the word topics in Views.py:

         # Topic Template
        path('topics/', views.topics, name='topics'),

The topics() function in view.py is updated to retrieve information from the database:

1. Import the model associated with the data we need.
2. The topics() function needs the parameter request object Django receives from the server.
3. Query the database by asking for the Topic objects sorted by the date_added attribute.
4. Define a context that is sent to the template. A **Context** is a dictionary in which keys are names used in the template to access data and values are data needed to be sent to the template. 

When building a page that uses data retrieved from the database, you call the render() function with the request object, the template to use, and the context dictionary.

        1    def topics(request):
                """Show all topics"""
        2        topics = Topic.objects.order_by('date_added')
        3        context = {'topics': topics}
        4        return render(request, 'learning_logs/topics.html', context)

